# DrugMatrix

DrugMatrix is the scientific communities’ largest molecular toxicology reference database and informatics system. DrugMatrix consists of the comprehensive results of thousands of highly controlled and standardized toxicological experiments where rats, or primary rat hepatocytes were systematically treated with more than 600 therapeutic, industrial, or environmental chemicals at both non-toxic and toxic doses. Following administration in vivo, comprehensive studies of the effects of these compounds were carried out after multiple durations of exposure, and in multiple target organs. Study types included pharmacology, clinical chemistry, hematology, histology, body and organ weights, and clinical observations. Additionally, a curation team extracted all relevant information on the compounds from the literature, the Physicians’ Desk Reference, package inserts, and other relevant sources. The heart of the DrugMatrix database is the thousands of gene expression data sets generated by extracting RNA from the toxicologically relevant organs and tissues, and analyzing these RNAs using the GE Codelink rat array, and the Affymetrix whole genome 230 2.0 rat GeneChip array systems.
 
DrugMatrix is a 3 tier web application implemented with a web browser user interface, a Java server application, and a relational database. It is an exceptional tool for data exploration, and it provides the user with a sizeable landscape of toxicogenomic information.
 
Source code, and information for downloading database contents coming soon.